# Nab Analysis
The Nab experiment at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Oak Ridge, Tennessee aims to measure some coefficients that come about in neutron beta decay. I want to keep this README as focused on code as possible, so I won't delve too much into physics except in situations where physics is necessary to discuss the code. The Nab experiment has many collaborators, even just among the analysis team. My analysis is NOT all of the analysis efforts to date. I am but a simple cog in a machine. This particular venture actually has nothing to do with calculating/measuring the coefficients mentioned above that the Nab experiment aims to do.

# Motivation
In order to measure the "a" and "b" coefficients of neutron beta decay, we need to measure the momenta and energies of protons and electrons created from the decay process. When neutrons decay within the spectrometer, magnetic field lines attempt to guide these particles into silicon detectors. When the particles hit the detector, they create a voltage that the detector records. Protons, being the much larger of the 2 decay byproducts, don't move very fast, even when we accelerate them to 30 keV. When protons hit our detector, they do create the signal we expect, but the signal is very small, and can sometimes be difficult to distinguish due to background electrical noise. Our electrical noise is not inherently a lot, but protons just deposit that little energy that it's on the same scale as our electrical noise.

Hence, there is motivation for one to find ways to identify protons amongst the noise. That is the goal of my project here (at least at the time of writing this).